Hey folks, and welcome back to my channel. My name
is Erin McGoff. I'm a filmmaker and career educator living
in New York. And today we're talking about how to
dress for a job interview.
Okay, but first we can address this weird elephant in
the room. I am in a new space. I now
lease an office space to film my show, No One
Knows What They're Doing. If you haven't checked it out
yet, please check it out. It's so much fun. I
have my chair, I have my mug, I have my
YouTube award back there, and my plant that's dying. And
then the microphone, honestly, it just gets the best audio
quality. Like, I hate wearing the lavalier, and I hate
having the shotgun mic 'cause it picks up all the
New York City sounds outside. So you know what? I'm
gonna use a microphone for this, and if it works,
it works. If it doesn't, we'll go back to something
else. But I'm just... I'm gonna try it out for
this, okay? Let's just... Let's... Moving on. Smart casual, business
casual, smart business, professional casual, formal. Ah, what does it
all mean? I just don't... I don't know. Please, Erin,
just tell me what clothes to put on my body
to look professional in a job interview. Don't worry, I
got you. Let's talk about it. So first of all,
there is all these hidden rules when it comes to
dressing for job interviews, and we are going to talk
about all of those. If you clicked on this video
though, and you have a job interview coming up, I
just wanna say congrats. Remember that getting a job interview
is an accomplishment. That means that they liked your application,
they liked your resume, they really think you could be
a good fit for the role, and they just wanna
meet you. So feel good about yourself. They are excited
to meet you. I'm just happy that I got this
meeting. Now we just have to make sure that you
physically present yourself in a way that works in your
favor. So in this video, we are going to first
go through the cardinal rule of dressing for job interviews.
Number two, the job interview outfit method. Number three, decoding
the levels of business attire. Number four, the halo effect
and why it matters. Number five, where to shop. And
number six, some little tips and tricks that you might
need to know. Okay, so first up, there's like this
cardinal rule of dressing for job interviews, and if you
know it, you know it, and if you don't, you
don't, but now you're gonna know because I'm telling you.
It goes like this: you can't be overdressed, you can
only be underdressed. Always err on the side of fancy.
I don't know. Is it classy enough? Like, if you
have the choice between jeans and slacks, just go with
the slacks. Even if you think the job is chill,
just go with the slacks. Better safe than sorry. Also,
pro tip, this all applies to remote jobs and remote
interviews. You have to make sure that you're appropriately dressed,
yes, even pants, and shoes, and belt, and socks, and
everything. Because not only do you need to dress up
for a job interview to, like, look presentable, but it
also will just get you in that right head space,
and it'll just make you feel better about yourself when
you look good. You know what I mean? And also,
if you're ever confused about what to wear in a
job interview, you can ask the person who set up
the interview. Like, you can just ask them, like, "Hey,
by the way, what's the attire for the job interview?
What's the attire for the company?" Like, "What would be
proper for me to wear?" And that's not a weird
question at all, especially in the age of, like, remote
work, where you can't really see what employees are wearing
in the office. It's perfectly fine to just ask, "Hey,
what's the attire for the job interview?" Also, I just
wanna say that while this video will be for both
gender styles, my brother Brock actually made a video that's
specifically for, like, what men should wear in a job
interview, which he can speak a lot better towards 'cause
he's, like, a style expert and I am, like, very
much not. So I'll link to that down in the
description for all the men watching or for all the
women who wanna help a guy with a job interview
and what to wear. Um, I'll link to his video
'cause he does a very good job explaining it. And
also, if you need just some visual inspiration, I'm a
very visual person, I don't know about you. Go to
Pinterest and type in, like, smart casual, business casual, like,
men, women, like, whatever keywords you want, and you can
get some good visual examples of what to wear. Okay,
number two, the job interview outfit rule. So typically, the
best practice is to wear one step above what the
employees at that company wear. So what the heck does
that mean? For example, if you are applying to work
at McDonald's and everybody there is wearing a uniform, then
you would want to wear one step up from that,
which is smart casual. If you're applying for, like, a
teaching job where all the teachers wear smart casual, you
would wanna wear one step up from that in your
interview, which is business casual. And if you're applying for,
like, an office job where everybody wears business casual, you'll
wanna wear one step above that, which is business formal.
And if you don't know what the company wears, you
can always just email the person who set up the
interview and just say, "Hey, what's the attire for the
interview?" Or, "What's the attire at the company?" Or you
can just, like, sleuth their Instagram and, like, typically just...
you can tell kind of, like, what the vibe of
the company is. And if you really are unsure, it's
pretty much always safe to wear business casual or business
formal. Again, you can't be overdressed, but you can be
underdressed. So it's always just better to, they say, dress
for the job you want. You know, just wear that
suit, look good, because it's not going to work against
you if you look, like, too good. You know what
I mean? Okay, so next we're gonna go through those
different levels of formality when it comes to professional clothing.
The first rung is casual. Casual is what you wear
to get Chipotle. It can be a hoodie, ripped jeans
with Birkenstocks and socks. This is, this is casual. It
can be athleisure. It can be a sweatsuit. Casual isCasual.
The next step up is smart casual. Smart casual is
just polished casual. So while you can't wear a graphic
T-shirt, you could wear just a nice T-shirt. You can't
wear ripped jeans, but you could wear nice jeans. So
you're kind of just taking away that grungy part of
it, and you're leaving it with, like, this polished, nice
look. So you wanna stay away from any, like, overt
logos and graphics and any, like, decal on the clothing.
You just wanna keep it a little bit chicer. For
men, this can be, like, a really nice quality T-shirt
or, like, a short-sleeve button down or, like, a polo
shirt with, like, khakis or chinos. And for women, you
know, this can be, like, nice slacks, like, a sweater,
a blouse. And if you're confused where the line is,
basically you can wear chic casual, but you can't wear,
like, athleisure. So you're just, like, a little bit more
elevated in that chic casual space. Again, you can always
look these things up on Pinterest and just, like, search
smart casual and just see a bunch of examples. The
next rung up from smart casual is business casual. Business
casual means that we're a bit more elevated. Like, when
you think of Meghan Markle in Suits, a lot of
the time she's wearing business casual. For men, this can
be, like, nice slacks or chinos with, like, a button
down or, like, a sweater over your button down, a
belt, you know, some nice shoes. But you don't need
to be wearing, like, a tie or a suit jacket.
Like, you can wear an unstructured blazer or something on
top, but, like, you don't need the full shebang. And
for women, these things are much more loosey-goosey, so I'll
just give some examples on screen here. But, like, you
could also wear dress pants, you know, some heels, and
a nice blouse, a business dress and some pumps. But
you typically just wanna have things, you know, a little
dressy, like what you'd see in, in TV shows. The
next rung up from business casual is business professional, which
is probably the most straightforward of all the categories. And
this is just... You wear a suit. So you're wearing
a suit jacket, a button down tucked in with slacks,
and you can be wearing a belt that, you know,
matches your shoes. Like, the whole, the whole shebang. And
then for women, you know, it can also be a
suit. You don't really need a tie or a belt
necessarily. But you can also wear, you know, a really,
really nice business dress. Just something kind of structured and
modest. Honestly, for women, it's just much, much less straightforward.
I personally just like to wear a really nice suit
with a nice blouse and some nice shoes and just
make sure that everything's tailored, which we are going to
talk about. You know, for me, I just like to
wear a nice matching suit. The pants match the suit
jacket. I wear a nice blouse tucked in and some
really nice shoes to kind of give me a little
bit of lift. But again, just go to Pinterest, and
you can get some more visuals. Next, we're gonna talk
about something called the halo effect. The halo effect is
a psychological effect that takes place when people assume positive
traits about you because of your positive appearance. It's basically
pretty privilege, and it's something that we're all guilty of
doing. It's just evolutionary. It's in our brains. When we
see somebody who's attractive, we tend to think that they
are capable and they have it together. And when we
see somebody who looks more disheveled, we tend to think
that maybe they just don't have it together as much.
The thing is, is that you have control over this.
Regardless of how well you fit into, like, the societal
ideals of beauty, you have control over whether or not
you comb your hair and brush your teeth and take
a shower and smell and what you wear. You have
control over all of those things. So if you walk
into a job interview wearing a hoodie, smelling like smoke,
not having your hair brushed, like, wearing sneakers, you could
be the best manager, marketer, filmmaker, whatever it is, in
the world, and they will either subconsciously or consciously think
of you as less than if you walked in wearing
a tailored suit with your hair combed and, like, clear
eyes and smelling good. It's like you're going on a
professional date. Like, think about looking your absolute best. Clean
shaven. Wear makeup if that's what you do. Deodorant. Skip
the cologne, okay? Just smell clean because you are clean.
Okay, maybe, like, a little bit of perfume or cologne,
but please don't overdo it. It's, it's really... That's one
thing I hear from hiring managers all the time. It's
like they walk in, and it's just, like, a waft
of, like, Axe body spray, and it just, like, it's
distracting the whole interview. But seriously, like you're getting ready
for a date. Just look really, really, really nice, and
then just put on professional clothing, and this will work
in your favor. You want them to think that you
are as put together as you look. That is the
dream. That is the goal. And of course, in addition
to basic hygiene, it is crucial,
crucial that your clothes fit you, especially if you're a
guy. Now, if you're a girl, you can get away
with an oversized blazer or, you know, your pants being
a little long. Like, you can get away with, like,
it being, things being a little small or too big.
If you are a guy, you need to get your
clothes tailored to fit your body. If you walk into
an interview and your pants are baggy, all bunched up,
dragging on the ground, and your sleeves are too long,
and your shirt buttons are ripping 'cause they're too tight,
like, it just, again, subconsciously communicates to the interviewer that
you are just not put together. You can't go out
and just get your suit tailored, and that's probably not
the case. You probably are perfectly capable of doing that.
You just didn't prioritize it. So again, it's, it's all
subconscious. It's all subconscious bias. We just need to put
our best foot forward. So take your professional clothing out
of the closet, put it into a box or a
bag, walk down the street to your local tailor and
say, "Can you tailor all of these things to fit
my body?" And they'll probably just, you know, hem the
bottom of your pants and, like, bring up your sleeves
a little bit. It'll probably cost between, like, maybe 20
to 100 bucks per item, depend- totally depending on what
you need done, and this will be one of the
best uses of your time. Trust me. Also, you can
always learn how to sew. Like, if you're like me
and you're a short person, and it's impossible to find
clothes that fit, and you're always going to the tailor
and getting things hemmed, you can also just learn how
to sew yourself a- and do it yourself. Okay, next
up we are going to talk about where to shop.
Like, what specific stores you can shop at to buy
professional clothing. Now, if you are a budget shopper, you
actually have a lot of options. There's always Goodwill or
thrift stores, which can actually be very fantastic places to
buy professional clothing. And then there's always online platforms like
Mercari, Poshmark, Facebook Marketplace. Some other great budget stores I
love are, like, Ross, Marshalls, TJ Maxx, Kohl's. I've gotten
professional clothing from all those stores. And honestly, even if
you do have a bit more money, I would still
recommend going to these budget stores and looking around and
then using the excess that you save on a tailor.
Because again, like, the clothes are one thing, but making
sure that they're tailored to fit your body is almost
more important than what the actual clothes look like. Now,
if you do have a bit more budget, and you're
like, "Erin, I wanna buy some staples that I'm gonna
have throughout my career. Like, I'm ready to spend some
money," for both gender styles, I would recommend J.Crew, Banana
Republic, H&M, Nordstrom, Abercrombie, Express. Oh, and you know what
else is cute? Old Navy. Old Navy has cute stuff.
And Target. Target has cute stuff too. And if you're
like, "Erin, I am ready to invest in a nice
suit. I am at that place in my life where
I am ready to go," um, there's a few recommendations.
So for guys, I've heard Suitsupply is awesome. And then
that other company, it's called, like, Indochino, I think it's
called. I'm sorry if I'm saying that wrong, but I
know guys like that one too. Then there's always Brooks
Brothers, Ralph Lauren. All those companies are fine. If you're
a bit more budget, there's always, like, Joseph A. Bank.
Again, just a reminder, if you're going with, like, a
cheaper suit, just remember to, like, get it tailored, and
it's fine. It's fine. And for women, I personally love
Ann Taylor. Great staples there. I have shirts from there,
like, 10 years ago, and they're still looking brand new
today. Everlane, Cos, Theory. There are lots of good places
to get suits. I personally, though... My favorite suit that
I ever got as a, as a woman was from
H&M. I got it, like, 10 years ago, and I
still wear it. It fit me as a petite woman,
like, right off the rack. I never even got it
tailored. Like, it just fit, which isReally cool. And I
also got-- Last year, I got a custom bespoke suit.
She literally came to my apartment and, like, measured me
and made me a suit. I got to pick out
all the fabric and everything with a small business called
Dalia in New York City, and it was really, really
nice. The founder is really nice, and it's definitely a
specific style of suit. I can't tell you how special
it was to have a suit made exactly for my
body, especially as I'm five feet tall. Like, as a
small woman, just to have something that's not baggy at
all anywhere, like, was almost an emotional experience, just having
something that, like, perfectly fit my body. So if you
are looking to really invest in a suit, I highly
recommend going somewhere where you will, will get measured, where
they can create a bespoke suit for you. And nothing
hits quite like putting on something that was measured for
your body. It's, it's wild. But also then you're like,
"I can't gain or lose any weight" 'cause then the
suit won't fit anymore. Come on. Here comes the airplane.
There you go. Open. Open into the hangar. There you
go. Oh. And moving on, just a few last tips
for you just to serve as little reminders when you're
picking out your clothes. The first thing is that if
you do buy a suit, remember to cut the tag
in the back. A lot of suits come with this
little, like, stitching, and you just need to cut it.
A lot of men forget to do that. They walk
into an interview, and for some reason, it's just this,
like, weird thing where that they'll be like, "Oh, this
is your first suit. You didn't cut your tag." It's
dumb, but it's, like, a thing, so I thought I'd
tell you. Another thing, pay attention to labels. Probably don't
try to clean your nice professional clothing yourself. Take it
to a cleaning service because if you're like me, you
destroy everything in the wash, and, um, we don't need
to do that with your nice professional clothing. Another thing
is to just go with simple colors. Like, no zebra
stripe, no hot pink. Especially, you know, if you're going
to interview at, like, a hair salon or a tattoo
parlor, like, a creative agency, like, sure, maybe you could
express yourself a little bit more, but it's kind of
like a resume. Like, you just want to look good.
Like, just prioritize looking flattering. An interview isn't really about
self-expression and expressing your personality. It's about showing the company
that you are professional and that you can do a
really, really good job in the role, and you are
confident in that. So again, if you usually overdo it
with your hair and makeup, or you wear really loud
colors, or you wear, like, graphic things, or, like, you
do weird things with your, your body and your clothes,
that's all fine. Just maybe for an interview, dial it
back, just because you don't want to give them any
reason to say no to you. You just want to
err on the side of safety and modesty and more
professionalism. You only get one chance to make a first
impression with a company, so might as well not rock
the boat. Again, just look hot. Like, look really, really
good when you go into your interview because I strongly
believe that the better you, you feel about yourself, the
better you feel about what you're wearing and how you
look, the more confident you're gonna be in the job
interview, and that's just gonna shine through you. And one
last thing, a lot of people ask about, you know,
piercings and tattoos. I really think that's just not as
much of a concern these days. Maybe if you're interviewing
at, like, a cafe and, like, it's owned by, like,
an eighty-year-old man who's still operating like it's nineteen forty-two,
yeah, maybe he would care. But, like, in most industries
now, people don't seem to really care. However, you do
need to be aware of, like, read the room, like,
what industry you're going into. So if you're going into,
like, corporate law, finance, like, these kind of, like, more
conservative industries, yeah, maybe take your nose ring out. But
again, I just don't think it's that important anymore. I
think that workplaces have become more inclusive, and I just...
I don't think it's, it's a huge, it's a huge
problem. It's something that you should be too concerned about.
Again, if you think that it's something that maybe could
be discriminatory, yeah, maybe cover up your tattoos or, you
know, take your nose piercing out or whatever. But I
just don't think it's something that is a- as important
as it used to be. You know what I mean?
All right, y'all. That's it for today's video. But just
a few quick reminders. You can't be overdressed, but you
can be underdressed. Always up-dress the company a little bit.
Being fashionable is expensive, but being stylish is free. Look
really hot. Like, look very good. Look very attractive in
your job interview. Like, treat it like a date. Look
good. And lastly, Pinterest. Really, guys, I recommend Pinterest. It's
a great place. You can even shop on Pinterest and,
like, find clothes. I use it all the time for
job interview stuff, and it's great. Love you, Pinterest. All
right, y'all. I hope you enjoyed today's video, and I'm
so proud of you, and I'm excited for you. There
are great things coming right around the corner. Don't forget
to subscribe, hit that like button, and tune into my
show, No One Knows What They're Doing. You can watch
it right here on YouTube, or you can listen to
it on Spotify and Apple. And if you do, please
give it five stars. Give it a review. It really,
really helps me out. Remember, you got this, and I'll
see you next time.